update widgets docs (#206)
aiidalab/aiidalab: docs/source/app_development/widgets.rst

.. _develop-apps:widgets:

####################
Use AiiDAlab widgets
####################

AiiDAlab largely relies on `Jupyter widgets <https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_, also known as ``ipywidgets``, for the graphical user interface (GUI).
We have created a collection of reusable widgets that are already integrated with AiiDA and help you accomplish common tasks.

****************
AiiDAlab widgets
****************

> AiiDAlab apps typically involve some of following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AiiDAlab apps typically involve some of the following steps:
```

 * prepare the input for a calculation (e.g. an atomic structure)
 * select computational resources and submit a calculation to AiiDA
 * monitor a running calculation

>  * find and analyze the results of a calculation

Reviewer: These are sentences.

The AiiDAlab widgets help with these common tasks and are preinstalled in the AiiDAlab environment.
Please see `https://aiidalab-widgets-base.readthedocs.io <https://aiidalab-widgets-base.readthedocs.io/>`_ for documentation on the individual widgets.

.. image:: ./include/aiidalab-widgets-base.gif
    :width: 600px
    :align: center
    :alt: text

.. _develop-apps:widgets:more-widgets:

************
More widgets
************

* `ipywidgets`_: basic GUI components, such as a text, sliders, buttons, progress bars, drowdowns, etc.
* `widget-periodictable <https://github.com/osscar-org/widget-periodictable>`_ : interactive periodic table for element selection
* `widget-bandsplot <https://github.com/osscar-org/widget-bandsplot>`_ : plot electronic bandstructure and density of states
* `widget-jsmol <https://github.com/osscar-org/widget-jsmol>`_ : use the JSmol molecular visualizer inside a Jupyter notebook

**************************
Terminology and background
**************************

Widgets and traitlets
======================

> Widgets are eventful Python objects that display GUI components, such as a sliders, buttons, progress bars, drowdowns, etc.

Reviewer: "Eventful", or "stateful"? I actually never heard the former term. :/

Author: This adjective was already there before; I'll just remove it

Reviewer: I figured, but wanted to raise that point regardless.

`ipywidgets`_ is a Python package that provides interactive widgets for the use in Jupyter notebooks.

> An Ipywidget has a parameter, whose value can be ovserved and accessed from Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets can have one or more attributes, whose value can be _ovserved_ and accessed from Python such that we can react to changes to their values.
```

This is implemented using `traitlets <https://traitlets.readthedocs.io/>`_.

For example, try the following code in a Jupyter notebook:

.. code-block:: python

    from ipywidgets import FloatSlider

    # slider widget that has a `value` traitlet attribute
    slider = FloatSlider(value=273.0, min=100.0, max=500.0, description="Temperature [K]");

    # Access the slider value as `slider.value`
    # print(slider.value)

    def slider_change(change):
        """Handle slider changes.

        This function is called when the slider value is changed by the user.
        """
        print(change["old"])
        print(change["new"])
        if change["new"] > 373.0:
            print("Boiling now!")

>     slider.observe(slider_change, names="value")

Reviewer: I am usually not a fan to maintain documentation for other packages here, since APIs and best practices may change. If we do so, I'd prefer with as little code as possible to make it a true "minimal example", I believe this could be achieved by removing the print function calls in lines 72 and 73.

Author: I generally agree, which is why I removed the more involved python+JS example and only left this one in.

Will also remove lines 72+73

Creating your own widgets
=========================

> Each ipywidget consists of a Python component that defines how to interact with the widget from Python,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each widget consists of a Python component that defines how to interact with the widget from Python,
```
I don't think it makes sense to keep calling them "ipywidgets". That's the name of the packge, but the component is simply a widget. See also the language here: https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/stable/examples/Widget%20Basics.html

and a Javascript (or TypeScript) component that is responsible for the graphical representation of the widget and communicates updates back to the Jupyter kernel.

> If your goal is to combine existing widgets into new, reusable components, this can be done in Python without touching the Javascript component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the goal is to combine existing widgets into new, reusable components, this can be done in Python without touching the Javascript component.
```
Please do not directly address the reader. The only exception would be ("see ... ").

> See e.g. the `implementation of the AiiDAlab widgets <https://github.com/aiidalab/aiidalab-widgets-base>`_, most of which are of this type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See for example the `implementation of the AiiDAlab widgets <https://github.com/aiidalab/aiidalab-widgets-base>`_, most of which are of this type.
```

> If you would like to modify the appearance of an existing widget or create an entirely new visualization, you will need to write Javascript/TypeScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the appearance of an existing widget or to create an entirely new visualization, one needs to write Javascript/TypeScript.
```

Widgets are eventful Python objects that display GUI components, such as a sliders, buttons, progress bars, drowdowns, etc.
`ipywidgets`_ is a Python package that provides interactive widgets for the use in Jupyter notebooks.

> Widgets can have one or more attributes, whose value can be _ovserved_ and accessed from Python such that we can react to changes to their values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Widgets can have one or more attributes, whose value can be _observed_ and accessed from Python such that we can react to changes to their values.
```
typo
